The Federalist Papers : No. 7

The Same Subject Continued (Concerning Dangers from Dissensions Between the States)
From the New-York Packet, November 15, 1787.
HAMILTON

Key argument structure and direct quotes (compiled from Avalon / Wikisource references):

Opening motive question:
"what inducements could the States have, if disunited, to make war upon each other?"
Answer: "precisely the same inducements which have, at different times, deluded in blood all the nations in the world."

(1) TERRITORIAL DISPUTES
"Territorial disputes have at all times been found one of the most fertile sources of hostility among nations."
- Western (crown) lands: Congress appeased tensions by "prevailing upon the States to make cessions to the United States for the benefit of the whole."
- Wyoming Valley: Connecticut vs. Pennsylvania; Connecticut "gave strong indications of dissatisfaction" with the federal determination (Trenton Decree, 1782) before accepting an equivalent.
- Vermont: New York's claim; neighboring states (New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Connecticut) quietly encouraged dismemberment out of "jealousy of our future power."

(2) COMMERCIAL COMPETITION
"The competitions of commerce would be another fruitful source of contention."
- New York example: "New York, from the necessities of revenue, must lay duties on her importations. A great part of these duties must be paid by the inhabitants of the two other States in the capacity of consumers."
- Rhetorical: "Would Connecticut and New Jersey long submit to be taxed by New York for her exclusive benefit?"
- Key line: "WE SHOULD BE READY TO DENOMINATE INJURIES THOSE THINGS WHICH WERE IN REALITY THE JUSTIFIABLE ACTS OF INDEPENDENT SOVEREIGNTIES CONSULTING A DISTINCT INTEREST."

(3) PUBLIC DEBT APPORTIONMENT
"The apportionment, in the first instance, and the progressive extinguishment, afterwards, would be alike productive of ill-humor and animosity."
"there is nothing men differ so readily about as the payment of money."

(4) STATE LAWS VIOLATING PRIVATE CONTRACTS
"Laws in violation of private contracts, as they amount to aggressions on the rights of those States whose citizens are injured by them, may be considered as another probable source of hostility."
- Rhode Island's paper-money law (1786): "We have observed the disposition to retaliation excited in Connecticut, in consequence of the enormities perpetrated by the legislature of Rhode Island."
- "a war, not of parchment, but of the sword, would chastise such atrocious breaches of moral obligation."

(5) FOREIGN ALLIANCES / ENTANGLEMENT
Disunited America would become "entangled in all the pernicious labyrinths of European politics and wars" through incompatible alliances with foreign powers.

Closing Latin maxim:
"Divide et impera must be the motto of every nation that either hates or fears us."
(Divide and rule / divide and command — classic Roman/European political maxim on breaking up rivals.)
